what's going on guys in this video I'm
going to give you my top 5 picks for
front-end JavaScript frameworks in 2017
so let's go ahead and get started this
video is sponsored by dev Mountain if
you're interested in learning web
development iOS or UX design dev
Mountain is a 12-week design and
development bootcamp intended to get you
a full time job in the industry to learn
more visit dev mountain comm or click
the link in the description below as
with all of these kinds of videos I have
to kind of do a little disclaimer so
this list is composed of my opinion only
so take that with a grain of salt this
is based on my own experience as well as
unbiased research that ranked by things
like popularity syntax features ease of
use and so on so what I would suggest is
well to watch this video and do some
other research and then decide what's
best for you make your own list and I'd
like to see that in the comments section
as well so I also want to say that all
five of these frameworks are not very
far off from each other for instance the
top three are almost on the same level
for me in my opinion but there may be
one or two things that I like better
about number one than number two or
three all right I almost didn't even put
a rank on them because it was extremely
hard to to rank these and if you
disagree with the list that's absolutely
fine I'd like you to leave your feedback
and maybe your own personal list in the
comment section just keep it respectful
and then the last thing is this is this
is front-end frameworks and libraries I
know reactin view are technically
libraries but these can often replace
full frameworks in many cases alright so
with that said let's go ahead and get
started
so at number 5 we have polymer which is
a framework or library maintained by
Google polymer is built on top of the
concept of web components web components
are a set of w3c standards which
consists of several different web
technologies including custom elements
alright so web components are they're
part of the browser so we don't need any
third-party libraries like jQuery or
dojo polymer also believes in leveraging
the browser's native technologies rather
than
you know a custom JavaScript library the
polymer Dom layer is the closest to the
native JavaScript layer polymer also
uses something called behaviors to share
code between different components
behaviors can define lifecycle callbacks
declared properties observers event
listeners and so on you can also extend
behaviors pretty easily
another advantage to polymer is how it
encapsulates complex code and structure
you essentially have everything in one
place and it's not scattered all around
the application you can create your own
HTML elements and you can compose them
into into complete web applications that
are scalable and maintainable alright so
as I mentioned the web component
standard includes custom elements these
are similar to similar to angular
directives but directives don't use the
web components API polymer and the web
component specification is a more
standardized way of doing things
now some disadvantages to polymer is the
lack of documentation and support
dependency issues problem with problems
with mobile platforms and it's also not
entirely clear how to organize larger
applications with polymer and in my
opinion it has quite a learning curve
these are just some of the things that
kept polymer out of the top three
alright so at number 4 we have Ember as
it says right on their home page ember
is a full framework for creating
ambitious web applications ember is
known for being very productive it was
created with ergonomic sin mind and uses
very friendly api's so that you can get
things done faster with ease ember uses
best practices to its core it's a
convention over configuration framework
which is popularized by Ruby on Rails so
basically it's hard to write bad code
and you need to follow a set of
conventions and things will just work
this reduces errors reduces debugging
and also makes it easy for multiple
developers to work on the same projects
as long as they have they use the same
conventions so the Ember command-line
interface tool or ember CLI gives you a
whole host of
activity tools including broccoli Jas
which is a highly efficient build system
that can concatenate transpile minify
javascript and do many other things you
can easily use es6 syntax and compile it
down to es 5 for maximum browser
compatibility you can also get testing
tools jf hint live reload they're all
bundled within this ember CLI ember also
has its own ecosystem of add-ons that
can easily be installed to your project
ember data is a popular add-on which is
used to to robustly manage model data
there's many RMS to choose from you can
you know use member with long line of
databases and data stores
another popular add-on is Ember simple
auth which gives you basic allows you to
manage basic authentication and
authorization ember also uses the
handlebars and the HTML bars templating
engine by default which makes the views
or the templates very dynamic and it
uses a very simple syntax for for using
logic inside the view or inside the
template all right so that is number
four all right so at number three we
have angular 2 plus meaning angular 2
angular 4 so but for simplicity we're
just going to call it angular now when
it comes to features angular is
definitely up there and Euler does a lot
more than let's say react because it has
a full it's a full framework and it has
things like an HTTP module its own
routing system dependency injection and
so on so it's more of a batteries
included framework than most however you
can use you can do just about all the
stuff with react with with you know
adding a couple a couple packages to it
so angular can be overkill if you have a
really simple UI you probably want to go
with something like react or view but
angular is good for you know huge front
ends angular 2 has been really popular
this year part of that may be because
it's maintained by Google but it's also
part of the mean stack which is MongoDB
Express
angular and nodejs of course you can
also replace angular with reactor view
but either way knowing angular
especially knowing the mean stack is a
huge notch under your belt if you're
looking for a job in web development
alright most of these frameworks come
with some kind of command line or
command line interface like ember CLI
angular is no exception it has angular
CLI which is really great for generating
applications using the dev server
testing tools and of course the build
tools alright so it makes it much easier
to deploy an angular application that
you know than doing it manually now this
is this next one can be a pro or a con
depending on the developer some people
love typescript and some hated alright
it can be a good thing because it offers
static typing in JavaScript which is
something that's been missing from
JavaScript for a long time you can
define all your properties with a type
such as a string or number or whatever
this can minimize errors and bugs and
then on the other hand if that doesn't
interest you and it just adds you know
adds weight to your program and can over
complicate things personally I don't
really like it I would rather angular to
and not use typescript but I know a lot
of developers do like it and then
another advantage to angular is that
it's used for the popular ionic
framework which is used to build hybrid
mobile apps
all right hybrid apps still perform
quite as good as native apps do at least
at this point but they're also a hell of
a lot easier to create alright so
basically with angular you have the two
advantages of learning typescript and
ionic framework okay so you kind of get
some extra knowledge under your belt so
at number 2 we have react which is
technically a UI library but it does a
lot of the things that a framework does
and if not directly then with a couple
extra packages
all right so react does have a bit of a
learning curve and I think the biggest
struggle at least for myself when I was
learning react is was learning the best
practices you can basically do the same
thing in five different ways and
knowing what route you should take can
be kind of complicated but once you
really grasp that it's not really a
problem anymore
and things become clearer so being a UI
library and not a full complete
framework makes react very lightweight
angular can often feel bogged down but I
don't get that feeling with react and
since it's a UI library that only works
with you know within the view you can
use it with other frameworks as well so
you can use it with angular you can use
it with backbone and so on react is also
fast and efficient and creates its own
virtual Dom four components to live
which gives us flexibility and also
gives you gives us a little performance
bump so it compares the Dom to its own
virtual Dom and it only updates what it
needs to okay which makes it very fast
and efficient react is also very popular
the merge stack is quickly gaining
traction replacing angular with react I
do read a lot of web dev and tech blog
posts and react seems to be more popular
than angular it has a lot less baggage
and it's much more lightweight so react
runs in the view layer but you also have
the option to use it with flux or redux
which gives you a way to manage your
state work with databases and api's and
introduced the concept of unidirectional
data flow these architectures can be a
little difficult to understand at first
but once you do understand them you can
see just how powerful they are like with
any other framework I've mentioned react
has its own CLI or command-line
interface which is called create react
app and it easily generates an
application and its components and also
gives you a dev server testing and build
tools and then last but not least react
is really reaching the outside of web
development react native in my opinion
is the best way to build mobile apps
with web web dev technologies it's
different than using something like
ionic which is used for hybrid apps
react native applications feel a lot
less clunky and they're more like real
native applications for both Android and
I
you also have react windows you can
build Windows applications next j/s
which works with react on the server I
haven't gotten I haven't really gotten
into these but I've read a little bit
about them alright so at number one we
have huge EAS and yes they did spell it
correctly this time those of you who
watched my talk programming languages in
2017 know what I mean I actually spelled
view V iew which is absolutely
ridiculous because I use it all the time
so view is actually very similar to
react as it utilizes the virtual Dom
uses reactive components and so on but
there are some advantages to view over
react so to me there's one advantage
that really sticks out with view and
that's simplicity it has far less of a
learning curve than most frameworks
there's no poly filling transpiling
bundler one script tag in the HTML and
you can use it
alright so people that only have
knowledge of HTML and basic JavaScript
they can actually look at a view
application and kind of understand the
gist of what's going on and for advanced
JavaScript programmers view allows
immediate productivity view is very
flexible and can be used for extremely
simple UI to more in-depth applications
with es6 JSX
routing bundling and more it's also a
very unattractive self on JSX
and not having the need to use templates
but in view 2.0 they added the option to
use templates as well as rendering in
JavaScript and JSX
so if your if you are react or an
angular developer view is going to look
very familiar to you in fact knowing
react going into view I pretty much
understood it all of it within the first
day because it's just very easy to look
at and understand so angularjs and even
angular 2 easily support to a data
binding using ng model react not so much
you can use to a data binding but it's a
little more complicated but view makes
it easy with v model so in fact I'm
going to put a link in the description
which compares view
react and angular with some code samples
and I suggest checking that out to a
data binding is one of the examples
all right view J s also has its own
command-line interface called view CLI
and it's used to easily scaffold view
projects you can choose to use webpack
as well as a browserify
or you can just use a single HTML file
you can also create your own templates
there's a dev server and you can easily
compile and deploy using the view build
command so deploying view is much easier
than something like angular 2 all right
but one drawback of view is its support
and its widespread adoption it doesn't
have as many resources on the internet
that you as you would find with react
and angular but if you think about it
react is backed by Facebook angular by
Google View managed to get to where it
is without those companies so I think
that's definitely something to look at
and to consider alright guys so that's
going to do it for this video and for
the top 5 JavaScript frameworks of 2017
again this is my opinion only but
hopefully you guys enjoyed it and I will
see you in the next video